We begin our story by peaking into the private chambers of Prince Siyawush and Princess
Farangis. As you can tell, they are the only ones in their room, but not
the only characters depicted in the image!  Scattered around the outside of the room are
various women, each focused on the central figures of the Prince and Princess.  So, what
exactly are we witnessing here? What is it about these two that has drawn the
attention of everybody, including you and I?  This is their first meeting!  And not just
any meeting.  Have you ever heard of the tv show “Married at first sight?”  This
is the pretty much the 17th century version of that show! On the left we
have Prince Siyawush of Iran.  Notice the simplicity of his dress and the bareness of
his face? He is a young Prince quite out of his usual luxurious element. After
declining his stepmother's’ romantic advances, the Prince was forced to flee his homeland and take
shelter in the rival nation of Turan.  He soon made friends with a well-respected
courts man who suggests an arranged marriage with Farangis, the Princess of Turan.
Farangis’ father, King Afrasiyab had some misgivings about this plan.  His astrologers had previously warned
him that such a union between the kingdoms could lead to his ultimate demise!
In the end, however, he was won over by the courts man, and the two
were wed. So here they are, first laying eyes upon their newly minted spouse!
Notice the space between the Prince and Princess. We can clearly make out the carpet between
them and the door behind them within the space. The only connecting point is their
limbs – with Siyawush reaching out both arms to hold onto Farangis in a caring gesture.
The Princess’ response is a slight smile and the shy covering of her lower face
with her sleeve. While there is a tentative feel to this exchange, both parties appear
relaxed and interested in this fresh encounter.
Notice the warm shades colouring the scene. Orange, yellow and red are used with prominence,
and the entire scene is outlined with gold.  Cooler items are coupled with warm details:
The purple patterned walls on either side have many vibrant red dots throughout and the
tiled blue roof is marked with small red crosses.  The image feels hospitable and inviting,
with the colour palate evoking feelings of warmth, much like being drawn into a room
by a cozy hearth fire. This tone foreshadows the deep love that will quickly grow
between the Prince and Princess. Their love is described as the union of “Venus and
the Sun.” The couple go on to enjoy the benefits extended to Siyawush by King
Afrasayib. He makes Siyawush the ruler of the lands east of Turan. Here, Siyawush has
a grandiose palace built and the couple enjoys their life together. Their love is not
to last though, as the jealousy and lies of Farangis’ Uncle tear the couple apart
and the prophecy of King Afrasiyab’s demise comes to pass. But that chapter is for
another time. For now, let us enjoy this moment of young love budding between Prince
Siyawush and Princess Farangis in their magical first encounter.